# A Lap around the Comparers Library

The Comparers library has four main parts:

1. Comparer implementations. You can use the `ComparerBuilder` and `EqualityComparerBuilder` classes to [create comparer instances with a fluent API](key-comparers.md).
1. Extension methods for comparers. The `ComparerExtensions` and `EqualityComparerExtensions` classes provide [extensions that can be used to modify any comparer](comparer-extensions.md) (including custom or built-in comparers).
1. Assistance for a type defining its own default comparer. The `ComparableBase` and `EquatableBase` classes help [derived classes define a reasonable default comparer](default-comparers-for-your-types.md).
1. Extension methods for LINQ to Objects. All operators that take a comparer get overloads that allow a fluent API syntax for defining a comparer right within the LINQ query. This is particularly useful for [defining comparers over anonymous types](comparers-for-anonymous-types.md).

Every full comparer provided by this library implements `IFullComparer<T>`, which derives from all four interfaces `IComparer<T>`, `IComparer`, `IEqualityComparer<T>`, and `IEqualityComparer`. Every equality comparer provided by this library implements `IFullEqualityComparer<T>`, which derives from both `IEqualityComparer<T>` and `IEqualityComparer`.

This means that the comparers generated by this library can be used with any generic or non-generic container or algorithm. Also, all the comparers implement equality comparison as well, so they can be used with hash-based containers and algorithms.

Since the .NET `Comparer<T>.Default` type does *not* implement `IEqualityComparer<T>`, this library provides its own [default comparer](default-comparer.md).

For more advanced uses, this library also supports [building comparers at runtime](run-time-comparers.md) and [defining one comparer that can be used with multiple unrelated types](comparers-for-dynamic-types.md).